# 数据集
马疝病数据集,原数据集共有368项，28个特征。
本数据集是处理后的结果，选取了其中22个特征。
1: surgery?
1 = Yes, it had surgery
2 = It was treated without surgery

2: Age
1 = Adult horse
2 = Young (< 6 months)

3: rectal temperature
- linear
- in degrees celsius.
- An elevated temp may occur due to infection.
- temperature may be reduced when the animal is in late shock
- normal temp is 37.8
- this parameter will usually change as the problem progresses, eg. may start out normal, then become elevated because of the lesion, passing back through the normal range as the horse goes into shock
4: pulse
- linear
- the heart rate in beats per minute
- is a reflection of the heart condition: 30 -40 is normal for adults
- rare to have a lower than normal rate although athletic horses may have a rate of 20-25
- animals with painful lesions or suffering from circulatory shock may have an elevated heart rate

5: respiratory rate
- linear
- normal rate is 8 to 10
- usefulness is doubtful due to the great fluctuations

6: temperature of extremities
- a subjective indication of peripheral circulation
- possible values:
1 = Normal
2 = Warm
3 = Cool
4 = Cold
- cool to cold extremities indicate possible shock
- hot extremities should correlate with an elevated rectal temp.

7: peripheral pulse
- subjective
- possible values are:
1 = normal
2 = increased
3 = reduced
4 = absent
- normal or increased p.p. are indicative of adequate circulation while reduced or absent indicate poor perfusion

8: mucous membranes
- a subjective measurement of colour
- possible values are:
1 = normal pink
2 = bright pink
3 = pale pink
4 = pale cyanotic
5 = bright red / injected
6 = dark cyanotic
- 1 and 2 probably indicate a normal or slightly increased circulation
- 3 may occur in early shock
- 4 and 6 are indicative of serious circulatory compromise
- 5 is more indicative of a septicemia

9: capillary refill time
- a clinical judgement. The longer the refill, the poorer the circulation
- possible values
1 = < 3 seconds
2 = >= 3 seconds

10: pain - a subjective judgement of the horse's pain level
- possible values:
1 = alert, no pain
2 = depressed
3 = intermittent mild pain
4 = intermittent severe pain
5 = continuous severe pain
- should NOT be treated as a ordered or discrete variable!
- In general, the more painful, the more likely it is to require surgery
- prior treatment of pain may mask the pain level to some extent

11: peristalsis
- an indication of the activity in the horse's gut. As the gut becomes more distended or the horse becomes more toxic, the activity decreases
- possible values:
1 = hypermotile
2 = normal
3 = hypomotile
4 = absent

12: abdominal distension
- An IMPORTANT parameter.
- possible values
1 = none
2 = slight
3 = moderate
4 = severe
- an animal with abdominal distension is likely to be painful and have reduced gut motility.
- a horse with severe abdominal distension is likely to require surgery just tio relieve the pressure

13: nasogastric tube
- this refers to any gas coming out of the tube
- possible values:
1 = none
2 = slight
3 = significant
- a large gas cap in the stomach is likely to give the horse discomfort

14: nasogastric reflux
- possible values
1 = none
2 = > 1 liter
3 = < 1 liter
- the greater amount of reflux, the more likelihood that there is some serious obstruction to the fluid passage from the rest of the intestine

15: nasogastric reflux PH
- linear
- scale is from 0 to 14 with 7 being neutral
- normal values are in the 3 to 4 range

16: rectal examination - feces
- possible values
1 = normal
2 = increased
3 = decreased
4 = absent
- absent feces probably indicates an obstruction

17: abdomen
- possible values
1 = normal
2 = other
3 = firm feces in the large intestine
4 = distended small intestine
5 = distended large intestine
- 3 is probably an obstruction caused by a mechanical impaction and is normally treated medically
- 4 and 5 indicate a surgical lesion

18: packed cell volume
- linear
- the # of red cells by volume in the blood
- normal range is 30 to 50. The level rises as the circulation becomes compromised or as the animal becomes dehydrated.

19: total protein
- linear
- normal values lie in the 6-7.5 (gms/dL) range
- the higher the value the greater the dehydration

20: abdominocentesis appearance
- a needle is put in the horse's abdomen and fluid is obtained from
the abdominal cavity
- possible values:
1 = clear
2 = cloudy
3 = serosanguinous
- normal fluid is clear while cloudy or serosanguinous indicates a compromised gut

21: abdomcentesis total protein
- linear
- the higher the level of protein the more likely it is to have a compromised gut. Values are in gms/dL

22: outcome
- what eventually happened to the horse?
- possible values:
1 = lived
0 = died（include euthanized）
和原数据相比，选取的特征为原数据的1-2和4-23,另外最后的特征进行了归并，将安乐死3归并为死亡2，本数据将2和3合并为0.
